README.md, before:

# GemidaWebsite

A family management and visualization web app built with Next.js (App Router). It provides user authentication, family tree visualization and management, event & timeline features, image uploads, and an admin interface.

---

## 🚀 Features

- User authentication (JWT) and profile management
- Family tree visualization and editing (GoJS-based component)
- Events and timeline management
- Image/file uploads (UploadThing)
- Admin area for managing content, members, and family tree
- Dashboard with charts and key metrics
- TypeScript + Tailwind CSS UI with Radix primitives and reusable components
- Prisma ORM for database modeling and seeding

---

## 🧩 Tech stack

- Next.js 13 (App Router)
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- Prisma (Postgres or other database supported by Prisma)
- UploadThing (file uploads)
- GoJS (family tree visualization)
- Radix UI, Recharts, React Hook Form, Zod, Sonner, and other UI helpers

---

## ⚙️ Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or newer
- A database supported by Prisma (e.g., PostgreSQL)
- (Optional) An UploadThing account/config if you plan to enable production uploads

---

## 🛠️ Setup / Development

1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone <repo-url>
cd GemidaWebsite
```

2. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
# or `pnpm install` / `yarn` depending on your preference
```

3. Create a `.env` file in the project root with the required environment variables (example below).

4. Setup the database and run migrations

```bash
# generate prisma client + run migrations locally
npx prisma migrate dev --name init
```

5. Seed the database (project includes a seed script)

```bash
npm run seed
```

6. Start the dev server

```bash
npm run dev
```

---

## 📁 Example `.env` / `.env.example` (do NOT commit secrets)

Use the included `.env.example` as a starting point — copy it to `.env` and fill in real secret values.

```
# Example (see .env.example)
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/gemida?schema=public"
JWT_SECRET="a_long_random_secret"
# Optional (UploadThing or other keys if used in deployment)
# UPLOADTHING_SECRET=...
# NEXT_PUBLIC_UPLOADTHING_URL=...
```

> Note: The app reads `DATABASE_URL` (used by Prisma) and `JWT_SECRET` (used for auth). For local development, copy `.env.example` -> `.env`. Do NOT commit your `.env` file.

---

## 📜 Available scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start dev server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run seed` - Run the prisma seed script
- `npm test` - Run unit tests (Vitest)

---

## 🗂️ Project structure (high-level)

- `app/` - Next.js app routes and pages (App Router)
- `components/` - Reusable UI components (including `FamilyTreeGoJS` and `ImageUpload`)
- `lib/` - Utilities, API helpers, Prisma client, auth logic
- `prisma/` - Prisma schema and seed data
- `public/` - Static assets

---

## ✅ Development notes & troubleshooting

- If Prisma client is outdated: `npx prisma generate`
- If you get migration errors, check `DATABASE_URL` and re-run `npx prisma migrate dev`
- Ensure `JWT_SECRET` is set for auth-related endpoints

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome — please open issues or PRs with clear descriptions. Follow branch naming conventions and create focused, small PRs.

---

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See the included `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

Add anti-patterns, contrast audit & theme tweaks
- Add brand anti-patterns and a color contrast audit, plus various UI/accessibility and theme improvements.

- Add .agent/skills/brand-identity/resources/anti-patterns.md and reference it in SKILL.md and README to document design/UX anti-patterns.
- Introduce scripts/contrast-audit.js to parse app/globals.css and report WCAG contrast ratios for light/dark tokens.
- Update design tokens and CSS (--destructive values) to improve contrast for light/dark themes.
- Make FamilyTreeGoJS theme-aware (useTheme), apply dark mode styles, improve image handling, accessible controls, and adapt diagram colors and bindings.
- Add loading="lazy" to multiple images (dashboard/events/details) and improve ImageUpload remove button accessibility/focus styles.
- Minor chart CSS tweak to grid stroke opacity.

These changes aim to improve accessibility (contrast, lazy loading, keyboard/focus), support dark mode, and provide guidance/tools for future design changes.

README.md, after:

# GemidaWebsite

A family management and visualization web app built with Next.js (App Router). It provides user authentication, family tree visualization and management, event & timeline features, image uploads, and an admin interface.

---

## 🚀 Features

- User authentication (JWT) and profile management
- Family tree visualization and editing (GoJS-based component)
- Events and timeline management
- Image/file uploads (UploadThing)
- Admin area for managing content, members, and family tree
- Dashboard with charts and key metrics
- TypeScript + Tailwind CSS UI with Radix primitives and reusable components
- Prisma ORM for database modeling and seeding

---

## 🧩 Tech stack

- Next.js 13 (App Router)
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- Prisma (Postgres or other database supported by Prisma)
- UploadThing (file uploads)
- GoJS (family tree visualization)
- Radix UI, Recharts, React Hook Form, Zod, Sonner, and other UI helpers

---

## ⚙️ Prerequisites

- Node.js 18 or newer
- A database supported by Prisma (e.g., PostgreSQL)
- (Optional) An UploadThing account/config if you plan to enable production uploads

---

## 🛠️ Setup / Development

1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone <repo-url>
cd GemidaWebsite
```

2. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
# or `pnpm install` / `yarn` depending on your preference
```

3. Create a `.env` file in the project root with the required environment variables (example below).

4. Setup the database and run migrations

```bash
# generate prisma client + run migrations locally
npx prisma migrate dev --name init
```

5. Seed the database (project includes a seed script)

```bash
npm run seed
```

6. Start the dev server

```bash
npm run dev
```

---

## 📁 Example `.env` / `.env.example` (do NOT commit secrets)

Use the included `.env.example` as a starting point — copy it to `.env` and fill in real secret values.

```
# Example (see .env.example)
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/gemida?schema=public"
JWT_SECRET="a_long_random_secret"
# Optional (UploadThing or other keys if used in deployment)
# UPLOADTHING_SECRET=...
# NEXT_PUBLIC_UPLOADTHING_URL=...
```

> Note: The app reads `DATABASE_URL` (used by Prisma) and `JWT_SECRET` (used for auth). For local development, copy `.env.example` -> `.env`. Do NOT commit your `.env` file.

---

## 📜 Available scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start dev server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run seed` - Run the prisma seed script
- `npm test` - Run unit tests (Vitest)

---

## 🗂️ Project structure (high-level)

- `app/` - Next.js app routes and pages (App Router)
- `components/` - Reusable UI components (including `FamilyTreeGoJS` and `ImageUpload`)
- `lib/` - Utilities, API helpers, Prisma client, auth logic
- `prisma/` - Prisma schema and seed data
- `public/` - Static assets

---

## 🎨 Design & Brand Guidelines

This project aims to follow the **brand identity anti-patterns** defined in `.agent/skills/brand-identity/resources/anti-patterns.md`. In short, avoid:

- flashy animations that block interaction or last more than 300ms for user-driven transitions
- low‑contrast text combinations and more than three primary colors per view
- cluttered layouts, mystery‑meat navigation, or mobile‑hostile designs
- unoptimized images (use WebP, add `loading="lazy"`, etc.)
- form frustrations like placeholder‑only labels or validation only on submit
- auto‑playing content, `click here` links, or Lorem Ipsum in production

Review the `anti-patterns.md` file for the full checklist and try to apply the principles during development.

### 🧪 Color Contrast Audit

A helper script (`scripts/contrast-audit.js`) reads the CSS variables in `app/globals.css` and reports WCAG contrast ratios for the light and dark themes. Run it using:

```bash
node scripts/contrast-audit.js
```

The output highlights any pairs falling below AA thresholds (4.5:1 for normal text). Use the results to adjust your token palette and avoid harsh or fatigued colors.

We recommend running the audit whenever you tweak the theme or add new semantic colors.

## ✅ Development notes & troubleshooting

- If Prisma client is outdated: `npx prisma generate`
- If you get migration errors, check `DATABASE_URL` and re-run `npx prisma migrate dev`
- Ensure `JWT_SECRET` is set for auth-related endpoints

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome — please open issues or PRs with clear descriptions. Follow branch naming conventions and create focused, small PRs.

---

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See the included `LICENSE` file for details.
